Update AWS RDS procedure (#2727)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-rds.md

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Amazon RDS** brings 7 host templates:

* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cluster-custom**
* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-Aurora-custom**
* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MSSQL-custom**
* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MariaDB-custom**
* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MySQL-custom**
* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-Oracle-custom**
* **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-PostgreSQL-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cluster-custom" label="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cluster-custom">

| Service Alias    | Service Template                      | Service Description                       |
|:-----------------|:--------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|

> | Rds-Connections  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom  | Check connection number on instance       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Connections  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom  | Check the number of connections to the instance       |
```

| Rds-Cpu-Credit   | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Credit-Api-custom   | Check CPU credits usage                   |
| Rds-Cpu-Usage    | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Usage-Api-custom    | Check CPU usage                           |
| Rds-Network      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Network-Api-custom      | Check network usage                       |

> | Rds-Queries      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Queries-Api-custom      | Check requests number made on instance    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Queries      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Queries-Api-custom      | Check the number of requests made on the instance    |
```

> | Rds-Transactions | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Transactions-Api-custom | Check transaction number made on instance |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Transactions | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Transactions-Api-custom | Check the number of transactions made on the instance |
```

> | Rds-Volume-Iops  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Volume-Iops-Api-custom  | Check volumes IO utilization              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Volume-Iops  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Volume-Iops-Api-custom  | Check volumes I/O utilization              |
```

| Rds-Volume-Usage | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Volume-Usage-Api-custom | Check volumes usage                       |

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cluster-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-Aurora-custom" label="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-Aurora-custom">

| Service Alias    | Service Template                      | Service Description                       |
|:-----------------|:--------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------|

> | Rds-Connections  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom  | Check connection number on instance       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Connections  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom  | Check the number of connections to the instance       |
```

| Rds-Cpu-Credit   | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Credit-Api-custom   | Check CPU credits usage                   |
| Rds-Cpu-Usage    | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Usage-Api-custom    | Check CPU usage                           |
| Rds-Network      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Network-Api-custom      | Check network usage                       |
| Rds-Queries      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Queries-Api-custom      | Check requests number made on instance    |

> | Rds-Transactions | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Transactions-Api-custom | Check transaction number made on instance |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Transactions | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Transactions-Api-custom | Check the number of transactions made on the instance |
```

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-Aurora-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MSSQL-custom" label="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MSSQL-custom">

| Service Alias   | Service Template                     | Service Description                 |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------|:------------------------------------|

> | Rds-Connections | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom | Check connection number on instance |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Connections | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom | Check the number of connections to the instance |
```

| Service Alias   | Service Template                     | Service Description                 |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------|:------------------------------------|
| Rds-Connections | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom | Check connection number on instance |
| Rds-Cpu-Credit  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Credit-Api-custom  | Check CPU credits usage             |
| Rds-Cpu-Usage   | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Usage-Api-custom   | Check CPU usage                     |
| Rds-Diskio      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Diskio-Api-custom      | Check disks IO utilization          |
| Rds-Network     | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Network-Api-custom     | Check network usage                 |

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MariaDB-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MySQL-custom" label="Cloud-Aws-Rds-Instance-MySQL-custom">

| Service Alias   | Service Template                     | Service Description                 |
|:----------------|:-------------------------------------|:------------------------------------|

> | Rds-Connections | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom | Check connection number on instance |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Connections | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Connections-Api-custom | Check the number of connections to the instance |
```

| Rds-Cpu-Credit  | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Credit-Api-custom  | Check CPU credits usage             |
| Rds-Cpu-Usage   | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Cpu-Usage-Api-custom   | Check CPU usage                     |

> | Rds-Diskio      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Diskio-Api-custom      | Check disks IO utilization          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Rds-Diskio      | Cloud-Aws-Rds-Diskio-Api-custom      | Check disks I/O utilization          |
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Discovery rules

#### Host discovery

| Rule name       | Description                       |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------|
| Amazon AWS RDS  | Discover Amazon AWS RDS instances |

More information about discovering hosts automatically is available on the [dedicated page](/docs/monitoring/discovery/hosts-discovery).

### Collected metrics & status

Here is the list of services for this connector, detailing all metrics linked to each service.

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Rds-Connections" label="Rds-Connections">

| Metric name         | Description                             | Unit:  |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------- |:------ |
| DatabaseConnections | Number of connections to the database.  | Count  |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Rds-Cpu-Credit" label="Rds-Cpu-Credit">

| Metric name      | Description                                                | Unit                    |                   
| :--------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------- |:----------------------- |

> | CPUCreditBalance | Balance of allocated CPU credit to this type of instance.  | Credits (vCPU-minutes)  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CPUCreditBalance | Balance of allocated CPU credit for this type of instance.  | Credits (vCPU-minutes)  |
```

> | DiskQueueDepth  | The number of outstanding IOs (read/write requests) waiting to access the disk. | Count        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| DiskQueueDepth  | The number of outstanding I/Os (read/write requests) waiting to access the disk. | Count        |
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Rds-Instance-Status" label="Rds-Instance-Status">

| Metric name            | Unit  |
|:-----------------------|:------|
| total-available        | N/A   |
| total-failed           | N/A   |
| total-backing-up       | N/A   |
| total-maintenance      | N/A   |
| total-stopped          | N/A   |
| total-storage-full     | N/A   |
| *aws_instances*#status | N/A   |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Rds-Network" label="Rds-Network">

| Metric name               | Description                                                                                                                          | Unit          |
| :------------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |:------------- |

> | NetworkReceiveThroughput  | The incoming traffic on the DB instance, including both customer db traffic and AWS/RDS traffic used for monitoring and replication. | Bytes/Second  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NetworkReceiveThroughput  | The incoming traffic on the DB instance, including both customer DB traffic and AWS/RDS traffic used for monitoring and replication. | Bytes/Second  |
```

> | NetworkTransmitThroughput | The outgoing traffic on the DB instance, including both customer db traffic and AWS/RDS traffic used for monitoring and replication. | Bytes/Second  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NetworkTransmitThroughput | The outgoing traffic on the DB instance, including both customer DB traffic and AWS/RDS traffic used for monitoring and replication. | Bytes/Second  |
```

> | DMLThroughput    | The average number of DataModificationLanguage requests per second **(Only available on Aurora MySQL)** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| DMLThroughput    | The average number of DataModificationLanguage requests per second. **(Only available on Aurora MySQL)** |
```

> | CommitThroughput    | The average number of commit operations per second **(Only available on Aurora MySQL and Postgres)**                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CommitThroughput    | The average number of commit operations per second. **(Only available on Aurora MySQL and Postgres)**                                                                                                                         |
```

| Metric name     | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| VolumeReadIOPs  | The number of billed read I/O operations from a cluster volume, reported at 5-minute intervals. **(Only available on Aurora MySQL and Postgres)**              |
| VolumeWriteIOPs | The number of write disk I/O operations to the cluster volume, reported at 5-minute intervals. **(Only available on Aurora MySQL and Postgres)**               |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Rds-Volume-Usage" label="Rds-Volume-Usage">

| Metric name     | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | VolumeBytesUsed | The amount of storage used by your Aurora DB instance, in bytes and then affecting the cost of your instance **(Only available on Aurora MySQL and Postgres)** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| VolumeBytesUsed | The amount of storage used by your Aurora DB instance, in bytes and then affecting the cost of your instance. **(Only available on Aurora MySQL and Postgres)** |
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

### AWS Configuration

Configure a service account (access/secret key combo) for which the following privileges have to be granted:

| AWS Privilege                  | Description                                                     |
| :----------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | XXXXX:XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX         | Get XXXXX.                                                      |

Reviewer: ?

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

> | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster')                                                                       | cluster           | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (required) (can be: 'cluster')                                                                       | cluster           | X           |
```

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory, in particular the macro for defining the [custom mode](#available-custom-modes), i.e. the connection method to the resource.

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |

> | AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (required) (can be defined multiple times)                                                            |                   | X           |
```

> | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (required) (can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |
```

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory, in particular the macro for defining the [custom mode](#available-custom-modes), i.e. the connection method to the resource.

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |

> | AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (required) (can be defined multiple times)                                                            |                   | X           |
```

> | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (required) (can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |
```

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory, in particular the macro for defining the [custom mode](#available-custom-modes), i.e. the connection method to the resource.

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |

> | AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (required) (can be defined multiple times)                                                            |                   | X           |
```

> | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (required) (can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |
```

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory, in particular the macro for defining the [custom mode](#available-custom-modes), i.e. the connection method to the resource.

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |

> | AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (required) (can be defined multiple times)                                                            |                   | X           |
```

> | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (required) (can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |
```

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory, in particular the macro for defining the [custom mode](#available-custom-modes), i.e. the connection method to the resource.

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |

> | AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (required) (can be defined multiple times)                                                            |                   | X           |
```

| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```

4. Fill in the macros you want. Some macros are mandatory, in particular the macro for defining the [custom mode](#available-custom-modes), i.e. the connection method to the resource.

| Macro           | Description                                                                                                                | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:----------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| AWSACCESSKEY    | Set AWS access key                                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AWSASSUMEROLE   | Set arn of the role to be assumed                                                                                          |                   |             |
| AWSCUSTOMMODE   | When a plugin offers several ways (CLI, library, etc.) to get information the desired one must be defined with this option | awscli            |             |

> | AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (Required) (can be defined multipletimes)                                                            |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCENAME | Set the instance name (required) (can be defined multiple times)                                                            |                   | X           |
```

> | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (Required) (Can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSINSTANCETYPE | Set the instance type (required) (can be: 'cluster','instance')                                                            | instance          | X           |
```

> | AWSREGION       | Set the region name (Required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AWSREGION       | Set the region name (required)                                                                                             |                   | X           |
```
